As the days go by, House prices are also on the rise. It's not just in the US, it's happening all over the world. However, there are many reasons for these rates to increase such as Location, Home size and usable space, Age and condition, The local market, economic indicators, interest rates, growth in the economy, mortgage availability, and home sales economy mirror, etc...

But I strongly believe few factors - 

1. Location.
Your current home may be the ideal location for you — close to your job or near your parent’s house — but when appraisers determine how much value to assign based on the location of the house, they’re looking at three primary indicators, according to Inman.
The quality of local schools
Employment opportunities
Proximity to shopping, entertainment, and recreational centers

2. Home size and usable space.
When estimating your home’s market value, size is an important element to consider, since a bigger home can positively impact its valuation.
The value of a home is roughly estimated at price per square foot — the sales price divided by the square footage of the home. Say a 5,000 square-foot house sold for Rs.50,000,000. The price per square foot would be Rs.10,000.
The price buyers will pay per square foot can vary greatly. Depending on where you’re buying, Rs. 10,000 per square foot may be a bargain or far more than it’s common to pay.
In addition to square footage, a home’s usable space matters when determining its value. Garages, attics, and unfinished basements are generally not counted in usable square footage. So if you have a 2,000-square-foot home with a 600-square-foot garage, that’s only 1,400-square-feet livable space.
Livable space is what is most important to buyers and appraisers. Bedrooms and bathrooms are most highly valued, so the more beds and baths your home offers, the more your home is generally worth. However, these trends are very locally specific

3. Age and condition. 
Typically, newer homes appraise at a higher value. The fact that critical parts of the house, like plumbing, electrical, the roof, and appliances are newer and therefore less likely to break down, can generate savings for a buyer. For example, if a roof has a 20-year warranty, that’s money an owner will save over the next two decades, compared to an older home that may need a roof replaced in just a few years. According to the home adviser, the average cost to replace or install a roof in 2019 is just under Rs.5,50,000.

4. Local market.
Even if your home is in excellent condition, in the best location, with premium upgrades, the number of other properties for sale in your area and the number of buyers in the market can impact your home value. If there are a lot of buyers competing for fewer homes it’s a seller’s market. Conversely, a market with few buyers but many homes on the market is referred to as a buyer’s market.

5. Economic indicators.
The broader economy often impacts a person’s ability to buy or sell a home, so in slower economic conditions, the housing market can struggle. For example, if employment or wage growth slows, then fewer people might be able to afford a home or there may also be less opportunity to relocate for new opportunities. It’s important to keep up with the current status of home sales and home price appreciation in your area, especially when you evaluate the best time to sell your house.

                     -------------   Thank you   ---------------
